panal is yog Sutra chapter
2 uh
practice of yoga Sutra 18 19 20 and
prash so what is
drusa dush is consciousness or self duia
is the world everything we experience is
called
drusa its nature
is prakash that means satwa Kaa means
activity or rajas and stiti means
Stillness thus Darkness or
laziness that is its nature so nature
nature of prri
is satwa Ras rajas and tamas three
gas and then it's
uh form which is
visible
is five mahab bhas and indas five sense
organs so that
is its expression but its purpose
is two things either to enjoy the
pleasures of the world
or gain light sat quality and be
liberated so the drusa or world or
prti or sansar or jagat all these
different words are for the purpose for
the soul to enjoy it and be bound in by
by it or get out of it and find liberate
Maya that binds same Maya
liberates number 19 visha
Aisha Ling Matra
Alani
gani so there are different
elements of
prti San yoga describes 24 elements
so some are visible some are invisible
so gross one 16 elements that is pcha
Mahaba earth water fire air and space
and then five sense organs five motor
organs and
then the Mind these are gross
elements and then subtle elements are
five tan matras that is original form
that produce PCH Mahaba earth water fire
airspace in Elemental form and ahankar
or eye Consciousness those are six so
some are gross some are visible
and here he describes 16 and
six different qualities of prti
so one has to be free from all these
qualities to reach Atman or
Brahman number
20 that
means
self or D or Atma is
pure but it gets influenced by buddhi or
intellect and
considers everything what intellect says
as reality so by getting
involved it becomes
contaminated pure Atman connected with
intellect sees the world and gets
involved into all the illusion of the
world and that is how it gets
contaminated and then number
Atma so the purpose of prti
is
experiencing the sear or Atman to see
its own
nature and experience the world and from
EXP experience of the world to learn the
true
lesson so one can experience own self as
Atman so being free from all the
influence of buddhi or intellect
purifying intellect producing satwa
qualities and getting established into
own nature that is what Pali
describ when one withraw from the world
establishes in own nature and that is
the real goal of yoga meditation and
that is
Liberation J bhagan